.KUBERNETES
----------
1. Whatis difference between replica set & deployments?
2. what is service and what are service types?
3. what is taints & toleration?
4. what feilds are needed in yaml file, when you use ndoe port in service?
5. what is port, target port, node port?
6. what are affinity rules, what feilds you give in yaml for node affinity?
7. what are the different types of health checks?
8. what are daemon sets?
9. 

KUBERNETES
----------
1. How to restrict pod to pod communication?

2. What is Taints & toleration?

3. How is Node selector different from node affinity from pod affinity?

4. What are probes. How many different types of probes are there?

5. Use case of daemon set?

6. Different deployment strategy & difference between them?

7. How is role binding different from cluster role binding?

8. What is init container?

9. What is the role of scheduler?

10. what are components in K8 master?

11. What is the role of kubelet?

12. What is the role of kubectl?

13. What is pod?

KUBERNETES
----------
1. What are componenets of K8 cluster?

2. What is the use of scheduler?

3. What is kubelet

4. What is Multi container pod?

5. What is init container?

6. what are taints & tolerations?

7. What are network policies? How do you implement it? How the pod is attached to network policy

8. If deployment is failing, what could be the possible reasons?

9. What is the backup solution for kubernetes

10. You are doing rolling update strategy, when bringing new pod. its not coming up. users are facing issues. How can you resolve it

12. what are liveness probe and readiness probe?

13. How you are doing monitoring & logging in kubernetes

14. If there are 3 services running, frontend, middleware & backend in K8 cluster. I want frontend not to communicate with backend. how can i achieve that?

KUBERNETES
----------
1. What is Kube-Proxy?

2. Components of Worker Node?

3. Which deployment strategy used in K8?

4. What is Canary Deployment?

5. What is side car container

6. What is pod eviction?



KUBERNETES
----------
1. What are the various objects used in k8 so far?

2. Four main componets used to write in a kubernetes manifest file?

3. I have a pod & create a service object. How service will identify the pod to route the traffic?
   #using label selector

4. Main components of Master node & worker nodes?

5. Why cant we hav workloads on master?

6. Can we untaint the master node?

7. What are taints & tolerations. Where do we apply them?

8. What is node affinity?

9. I have a deployment with 5 replicas, How do you scale from 5 to 10?

KUBERNETES
----------
1. Differnce between master node & worker node?

2. Where is the configuration of worker nodes stored?

3. I have 3 replicas, 1 pod is down. how it will come?

4. What is kubectl?

5. What is use of kube-proxy

6. How can you mount the volumes to pods?

7. What is static pod &dynamic pod?

8. What is Daemon set?

9. What are stateful sets in k8s?

10. Difference between pod & container?

11. What is headless service



Kubernetes:
1) What is the architecture of kubernetes
2) What does control manager, etcd, scheduler, API server do
3) What is a manifest file and what are the components of it
4) What is node affinity, pod afiinity , taint toleration
5) What is node port, cluster ip
6) What is persitant volumes and why we use it
7) Describe what is pod and what is pod lifecycle
8) What are the components on master and worked node
9) What is ingress controller
10) What are types of services in kuberntes
11) How one pod talks with other pod
12) How the pod healcheck is done(describe rediness, livesness)
13) How the monitoring is done(integration on Prometheus and grafana)
14) What is deamonset, replicaset, horizontal pod autoscaler
15) Write a manifest file of your own choice
16) What is namespace and why we use it
17) What are helm charts and uses


Velatio:-
1) Difference between CMD and entry point
2)why we use labels in dockerfile?
3)let's suppose I have created Eks cluster and you have full permission still you are not able to access it. I have shared the kubeconfig file also with you, what is the problem?
4)what is workspace in Terraform?
5) difference between nacls and security group
6)what kubelet does?
7) difference between nlb and alb
8)how you manage rbac in Jenkins?
9) prepare one script for automatic creation of email ids from a file containing the names of employees

Clockhash:-
1) how to check the running processes on linux
2)have you check or monitor the running processes on linux
3)what lsop command do?
4)how to check docker logs ?
5) difference between configmap and secrets
6) different between add and copy command
7)what is pid and uid?
8)how to check open ports on linux?
9)how to bind docker volumes
10)how to add stages in Jenkins?

Treebo:-
1)How you do your observability?
2)what is the use of Elasticsearch?
3)if the response from db is taking time how you ll trouble shoot that?
4)what are all the metrics you collect from k8s?
5)if i/o of Elasticsearch was 10 and suddenly increase
6)what is sla and slo?
7)how do you define slos and slas for different tools and around the team?
8)have you been in the discussion of defining slas and slos?

Vauld-
1)what is VPC?
2)what is shared libraries in Jenkins?
3)which groovy script you have written recently?
4)what is for each attribute in Terraform?
5)what is null resource in Terraform?
6)what is module in Terraform?
7) steps to create the infrastructure using Terraform?
8)what is difference between got fetch and git pull?
9)which are different types of resources you have provision using Terraform?

Sourcefuse technologies:-
1)what is microservice?
2)what is hpa and vpa?
3)which lb you used for ingress?
4) difference between ebs and efs?
5)how your developer access to the db?
6) difference between root user and power user?


Explain what Kubernetes is.
What does K8s mean?
Explain what orchestration means and how it relates to DevOps.
Why is container orchestration important?
How does Kubernetes make deployment in containers easier?
How is host application deployment different from container application deployment?
Explain what the GKE is.
What is Prometheus?
What objects can you use in Kubernetes?
What are stateful sets?
What is Kubectl?
Name some crucial Kubectl commands.
Name the main pod types in Kubernetes.
What does persistent volume mean?
Which tools does Kubernetes use to do container monitoring?
Explain how Kubernetes is related to Docker.
Name some differences between Kubernetes and Docker Swarm.
Explain some of the advantages of Kubernetes.
Explain some of the disadvantages of Kubernetes.
Name some of the main Kubernetes features.
Name two main Kubernetes architecture components.
Why are cloud system administration skills important for Kubernetes developers?
Why are programming skills important for Kubernetes developers?

What are the main recommended Kubernetes security measures?
Which method would you use to set up a static IP for load balancers?
What are the critical components of a node status in Kubernetes?
What does the deploying applications process involve in Kubernetes?
Explain what a replica set does.
Explain what a replication controller does.
Explain the difference between replica sets and replication controllers.
How can an organization enhance the efficiency of its technical operations and keep costs low using Kubernetes?
How would you help an organization change its deployment strategy with Kubernetes and build a more scalable platform?
How can Kubernetes help with workload distribution optimization?





------------------------------------
********real time course************
------------------------------------

1) what are all component of master node

what all component of worker node

If scheduler went down then what are the impact over existing application  - no impact

If etcd went down then what are the impact over existing application - no impact

If etcd went down then what are the impact over existing application when it restart - i will be impact

6) if kubelet down then what are the impact - pod will be impacted

which conatiner runtime we are using in our infrastructure - containerD

what is kube-proxy

What is daemon set

10) what is diffrence between deployment and statefulset

What is difference between docker swarm and kubernetes

What are main parameter we have to define in pod yaml file ?

which type of application running in your env - mysql...atlas...busybox...elastich seacrh...

what are the command to uodate image in deployment - kubectl set image deployment/my-deployment mycontainer=myimage:1.9.1

15.How do we roll back application when we are doing upgradation ?

How many types of service

what are difference between clusterIp and NodePort IP

What are the range of NodePort service

What is config map and why do we use

20)What is secret and why do we use

How many types of secret

How do we extend size of existing PV

do we require downtime durung extend pv --- Yes we require

config map update - we need downtime,,..we have only restart pod

25.If pod down how do we fix

If PVC are in pending state then how do we fix

If Pod are getting imagePullBack off error  then how do we fix

If storage class is missing do we create PVC

If we delete pod then pv is also deleted  -- No its deleted 

30.if pvc deleted then corresponding pv is also deleted? its depeend upon reclaim policy...if reclaim policy would be delete then automati would be deleted  
                                                         if reclaim plocy would be Retain then pv would not be deleted , we have manually deleted

I am not able to extend persistent volume , how do we fix ?  

Pod and stuck terminating state how do we delete permanently ?

sometime we are trying to delete namespace but it stuck in terminating state , how do we fix ?

Have you done AKS cluster upgradation, explain it all process ?

What all challenges you have faced during upgradation and how do you fix those issue ?

How do we take backup and restoration of namespace and pod backup ?

Our var/lib/docker filesystem has been full, how do we fix this issue

How do we assign permision over namespace and cluster level access

what is cordon and drain 

40.I want to restrict pod on a particular node how do we acheive

i want not not schdule any pod on a particular worker node --- taint and toleration

What type of issue you have faced in your project

what is taint and toleration

i want a not any single pod will schdule on worker node  - using taint and toleration

how do we secure our cluster

How do we assign permission on a particular namespace

What is Role and Cluster Role

What is Role Binding and Cluster Role binding

What is HPA and VPA

50.How to we autoscale our cluster

How do we take backup of etcd

What is readiness and liveness

53.What is init container




