1)Tell me about yourself -full hadoop administration
Answer :- 
 Thank you for giving me opportuninty to introduce myself.
 As you know my name is Alfiya Multani.
 I have completed my Post Graduation from Fergusson College.
 Currently i am working as Big data admin in product based organization based in Pune.
 I do have 3 years of experience  
 Currently i am a part of a team who is responsible for running production grade big data clusters.There I have got the opportuninty to work on hadoop base projects. 
 We are using AWS cloud environment along with clouderas distribution of hadoop. 
 While being associated with the company as an admin i got hands on experience in cloud-services like EC2,S3,RDS and VPC and hadoop ecosystem components like hdfs,
yarn,kafka,sqoop,spark,hive and impala.
 initially i was working as a associate and was working with our cloud team, there i was responsible to work on AWS services like EC2,VPC, setting virtual firewalls
 and s3. 
 When i was a hadoop associate i was taking care of P3 and P4 tickets later on i got promoted as a big data administrator and started working on l2 level.
 As a big data administrator i am working on P1 and P2 tickets.
 I have also designed and documented services and successfully installed and configured those as per client requirement and secured them with authentication
 and authorization mechanism.
 I am also involved in inter departmental meetings to decide the roadmap of the upcoming projects.
 my current responsibilities are
 * Installing clusters
 * Deploying services as per client requirement
 * Do Prerequisites
 * Tuning
 * Security
 * Troubleshooting
 * Develop the document for best practice (RCA documentstions)
 * Working with vendor to resolve the issue
 * Cluster Configuraion like HA for YARN and Namenode
 and my day to day activies is
 * Login into Hadoop Console
 * Login into Cloudera admin Console
 * Monitoring the health of Cluster
 * Maintaining the logs
 So yes this was overall about me and my roles thank you.

 5)What is your greatest strength?
 Answer:
My biggest strength is, I have a solid work ethic.
When I'm working on a project, I don't just want to meet deadlines.
Rather, I prefer to complete the project ahead of schedule.
i am always ready to adapt new challange.
By understanding the challenges from multiple angles, I’m able to connect dots and create solutions.

6)What is your greatest weakness?
answer:
well , I am too detail oriented,
Sometimes I focus soo much on a certain details,
I am always thinking about the worst condition, so that i can
tackle that condition in better way.

 4)Describe your most challenging project?
 Answer:
 I remember, when i was working on a project, suddenly client changed the due date and the challenge is to complete that project within 15 days .
 at that time we worked on weekends also and submitted that project before a day of submission.
 
11)Where do you see yourself in 5 years?
Answer:
In the next 5 years, my aim is to continue to build strong
relationships and trust by establishing myself as an expert in my field. 
This will require dedicated investment both in and outside of my role
I have enjoyed owning projects and leading collaborators, and believe that management is the next right path for me.

 2)Tell me about a time you showed leadership?
 answer: 
 I remember the time when some tasks were remaining at my department and I was given the responsibility of asigning those to my team mates and work should be
 submitted within scheduled deadline.
 we were facing whether those tasks should be assigned in a parallel or serial manner to achive the goal in less then a limit time.
 there I noticed that there were no structured way to achieve the scheduled work.The tasks were not getting assigned in a organinzed manner
.and we were facing the absency of some team member.
 and needed to align them and get work to be done.So futher i disscussed this issue with operations manager and asked to schedule a meeting
 and disscuses about how the team can be aligned and 
 distribute the tasks among and get the project tasks done before the scheduled deadline.And asked them for their opnion.the tasks were of making reports
 and how to follow a proper 
documentation for which they will get assigned. I encouraged them to fairly assess their solutions and moderated the discussion so that it stayed productive
 and respectful.
 As they laid out their plans, it became clear that a hybrid approach would be best for the company.that by using way of serial and parallel.
we completed the tasks withing given scheduled limit.
 
 3)What would your co-workers say about you?
 answer:
 As i always try to take care of the people around me and make sure to keep healthy and cooperative environment.
 My coworkers would describe me as an organized, thoughtful person who works well under pressure.
 My colleagues regularly comment on my positive attitude and problem-solving abilities
 



7)Why should we hire you?
answer:
Well, I have all the skills and experience that you are looking for. and i am quite confident that i would be a perfect fit for this role.
I have a history of always completing my projects ahead of schedule
I am self motivated person and i try to exceed company expections with quality work
Overall, I believe I bring the right mix of skills, experiences and attitude for the job and think that my varied experience can add a lot of value here.
I would love to join your innovative team, continue to create great work, and grow within the company by learning new skills and it will boost my career.


8)Tell me about a time you had to manage conflicting priorities?
answer:
yes i remember that movement, It was about the changes to be done in my recent project . client manager and client it self were giving me different suggestions
 so i was a bit confused to which task should be prioritized first
I ranked the assignments and figured out how long it would take me to finish them.Then I checked in with my coworkers, clients, and manager to see 
if the timeline made sense to them and fix the change.Atlast it was done with efficiency and fullfilled the client requirements.


10)Why do you want to leave your current role? *
Answer:
I enjoy my current role and am not actually actively pursuing a change.
however I am open to undertake challenging opportunities that will allow me to provide value and add new skills to my profile.
I am interested in a role where I am responsible to deliver and actively contribute towards company success. 
I am also seeking continued development and improvement, both personally and professionally. 
Based on the job description and our discussions, this role does seem like a good match.



12)Tell me about something you’ve accomplished that you are proud of?
Answer:
It was in my comapny some systems were layed in traditional manner which was effecting the performonce and SLA.
There were errors and inaccuracies, and I took the initiative to implement a new hybrid approach to it .
Further the implementaion process was discussed by me and my teamlead.The implementaion result was very outstanding.
which effected our performance match and the output result seem preety much amazing.Overall, we had 25% fewer errors and my team became 30% more efficient.
That Idea accompalished me a lot.

13)Why do you want to work here?
Answer:
I see this opportunity as a way to contribute to an fast-moving company, and I feel I can do so with my skills and experience. I feel my skills are particularly
 well-suited to this position also help me to acquire experience & sharpen my skills.
If you give an opportunity to work with your organization, I positively look forward to give my best. that will help me for my future as well as for your organization.

14)Tell me about a time you were successful on a team?
Answer:
It was a time I was working with the Architecture of project when the component of one layer need to be implemented.
I realized that component was not holding much functions and can be mergerged with existing and implemented.
I did elloborated that ingestion tool will uncessorily increase our project stack will effect ops-ex.
Further disscusion was with client and client was so impressed.The team thanked me for helping. We also continue to use with
these tools, and they are what make our team so much more efficient at what we do.

15)What are your salary expectations?
Answer:

As per market standards usually we get atlest 30% hike. however I understand that as per your company's reputation you will provide me with a decent hike,
 I am happy to server with a decent hike as per company's Norm..

After researching market ranges from multiple sources online and taking into account my education, experience, and location, 
I’m targeting roles with base salaries in the range of 15lpa.
Of course, I’m also taking into account opportunities for long-term growth with an emphasis on purpose-driven work as I evaluate and weigh options — 
and my values are closely aligned with your
organization’s mission.
For this reason, I would be willing to negotiate base salary in exchange for a generous time-off policy. I intend to be a high performing asset to your company, 
and value time to recharge when appropriate.

16)Tell me about a time you worked with a difficult person?
Answer:
It was the time when in a meeting it was issued that some tasks are pending and it assigned to me with my teammate.
The schedule deadline was assigned with that task and needed fast action to be taken to workout.
The later i complete the prerequisite of and the report need to be collected from my teammate.
He used to respond very slow.He was late to provide the documented, and when he did provide it, it was incomplete or inaccurate.
Without getting the right information from him I knew I wouldn't be able to complete my assignment.we sat for disscusion.
He shared that he was overwhelmed, as he had multiple competing deadlines, and that there were errors and delays while creating.
then customized each of my requests in a way that would work with his schedule.And got the work completed.

17)Tell me about a time you disagreed with someone?
Answer:
It was time when i was working on recent project.
I dissagrred with our Teamlead,for a component which will uncessorily increase the workflow and operational cost.
further I disscused that removing that will be efficient and we can follow the process as planned.
At that time teamlead was seem to be much impressed by me.

18)Tell me about a time you had to handle pressure?
Answer:
while i was working on a project in my company two of my team members suddenly quit thier jobs without saying anything and
 we had only 3weeks to submitted the project
so i urgently called team meeting and found out what task were assigned to them .then we shared the important task to each other
 and we cancled optional task for three weeks . we also work on weekend to complete the project on time. and we did it

19)Tell me about a time you surpassed people’s expectations?
Answer:
As a young professional, I was given a small event to manage for my company's senior executives.
We originally expected about 50 attendees, but then the CEO decided to participate too. 
Suddenly, the event became much bigger people attending. We had to organize buses, food, scripted content, speeches and the program itself.
I stepped up and designed carefully crafted messaging documents for each stakeholder; had weekly check-ins with each group;
 and ran volunteer training sessions to be sure that all the logistics ran smoothly.
I learned the importance of careful planning and constant practice; two habits that paid off on many projects since then. 
The event is now considered the most successful of our division. My boss praised my work for going far beyond what she expected when the project was first assigned

20)Tell me about a time you had to persuade someone?
Answer:
no sir there have never been such a moment in my life

21)Tell me about a time you failed or made a mistake?
Answer:
when starting a job if the manager gave me some work i would always say yes to them because I wanted to do everything my manager asked me to do.
But as I started working on the project, I realized I didn't understand the overall goal. And the project ended up creating templates that didn't meet my manager's expectations.
My manager was disappointed in me. he told me that if I had asked some clarifying questions, I would've gotten to a better work product.
I learned that it's better to speak up quickly. That's how I've handled those situations ever since.
 

23) Any que for me
I have 3 que for you
How do you see the company evolving over the next five years
What can I do in this role to help you achive your vision
What the cluture like within the company
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
